##OPENSIM MODEL INSTRUCTIONS

1. Go to this OpenSim package link and download the MoBL-ARMS Upper Extremity Model
2. You will find the zipped folder "MoBL-ARMS-Upper-Extremity-Model.zip”. Download this folder and use the files in the Benchmarking Simulations folder for your simulations .
3. There are three different versions of the benchmarking simulations(one compatible with OpenSim 3.3 with Millard-Schutte-matched muscle models, one compatible with Opensim 4.1 with Millard-Schutte-matched muscle models, and one compatible with OpenSim 4.1
with Millard’s original muscle model). Open the Opensim 4.1 with Millard-Schutte matched muscle models.
4. The models is in the folder: ..../Benchmarking Simulations/ 4.1 Model with Millard Schutte Matched Curves
5. In OpenSim, load the Upper Extremity Model. Open Model→ ”MoBL-ARMS-module5-scaleIK.osim.”
6. Open Scale Model Tool. Tools → Scale Model
7. Upload the provided settings file. Load →“ MoBL-ARMS-module5-Scale-Setup.xml”
8. This file has made the following modifications to the default settings:
(a) Checked “Preserve mass distribution during scale” box
(b) Checked “Marker data for measurements” box
(c) Loaded “Static.trc” file under scale model heading
(d) Set Average measurement between times 7.845 and 8.525
(e) Checked “Adjust Model Markers” box
(f) Loaded “Static.trc” file for Marker data for static pose
(g) Set Average measurement between times 7.845 and 8.525
9. Leave the rest of the settings to default. Click Save if you would like to save these settings to a setup file for future simulations.
10. Click Run to run the simulation.
11. A new scaled model will appear in the model view window, with a corresponding new model listed in the navigator window. To save the model, go to the File menu and click
“Save as”. Save the model to a folder of your choosing with the name “MoBL-ARMSmodule5-scaled.osim”
12. In the “Coordinates” tab, set r-x=90 degrees, r-y=0 degrees, r-z=10 degrees, deviation= 0 degrees and flexion = 0 degrees, and lock these coordinates. This reflects known
experimental postures; the wrist was braced in neutral for this trial.
13. With the scaled model as the current model, open Inverse Kinematics Tool. Tools→Inverse Kinematics
14. Upload the provided settings file. Load → “ MoBL-ARMSmodule5-IK-Setup.xml” This file has made the following modifications to the default settings:
(a) a) Loaded marker data for trial: “. . . / InputFiles/ InputFiles-module5-ScaleIK/reach.trc”
15. Click Save if you would like to save these settings to a setup file for future simulations
16. Click Run to run the simulation.
17. A new motion named “Results” will appear under motions in the navigator. Right click and save as. . . “. . . / IKreach.mot” to a folder of your choosing.
18. Filter this offline using Matlab. We have provided a Matlab filter: “. . . / InputFiles/InputFiles-module5-ScaleIK/ IKfilter.m” This will create a file called. . . /ikfiltered.sto
19. Outcomes will be stored in a MOT-file or a STO-file that can be opened using the Plot Tool in OpenSim.Load your results in Plot Tool by clicking “y-Quantity”. Select “Load
file” and browse to your output. It will bring up a tickbox to choose the variable you would like to plot from among the columns in the datafile. Select the value(s) of interest
(generally a joint or muscle name) and click OK. Click “x-Quantity” and another tickbox will come up. Choose “time” and click OK. Click “Add” to plot the curve. Without
closing the window, click “y-Quantity” again and this time load the Comparison output file

###########
Note That: Other software was used for this task as open-sim did not have features to enable motion rendering. Used Blender 3D (open source 3D software).
In Blender, used a box that can follow the position data ; then, fixed the wrist motion to the box, and the rest of the arm joints will follow accordingly using built-in inverse kinematics.
The data was converted to mot.file format thus obtaining motion for OpenSim ; so created motion.
